docs/hooks/useDataQuery.md, before:

# useDataQuery Hook

Declaratively define data dependencies and respond to `loading` / `error` / `data` state changes.

## Basic Usage:

```jsx
import { useDataQuery } from '@dhis2/app-runtime'

// Within a functional component body
const { loading, error, data, refetch } = useDataQuery(query)
```

## Input

|      Name      |          Type          |   Required   | Description                                                                                                                |
| :------------: | :--------------------: | :----------: | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|   **query**    | [_Query_](types/Query) | **required** | The Query definition describing the requested data                                                                         |
| **variables**  |        _Object_        |              | Variables to be passed to the dynamic portions of the query                                                                |
| **onComplete** |       _Function_       |              | Callback function to be called on successfull completion of the query. Called with the response data as the only argument. |
|  **onError**   |       _Function_       |              | Callback function to be called on failure of the query. Called with the error instance as the only argument.               |

## Output

|    Name     |                 Type                 | Description                                                                                                                                                                            |
| :---------: | :----------------------------------: | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **loading** |              _boolean_               | **true** if the data is not yet available and no error has yet been encountered                                                                                                        |
|  **error**  |    _Error_<br/>or<br/>_undefined_    | **undefined** if no error has occurred, otherwise the Error which was thrown                                                                                                           |
|  **data**   | _QueryResult_<br/>or<br/>_undefined_ | **undefined** if the data is loading or an error has occurred, otherwise a map from the name of each **QueryDefinition** defined in the **Query** to the resulting data for that query |
| **refetch** |              _Function_              | This function can be called to refetch the data. Any in-flight HTTP requests will automatically be aborted.                                                                            |
| **engine**  | [_Data Engine_](advanced/DataEngine) | A reference to the DataEngine instance                                                                                                                                                 |

## Example

```jsx
import React from 'react'
import { useDataQuery } from '@dhis2/app-runtime'

const query = {
    indicators: {
        resource: 'indicators.json',
        params: {
            order: 'shortName:desc',
            pageSize: 10,
        },
    },
}
export const IndicatorList = () => {
    const { loading, error, data } = useDataQuery(query)
    return (
        <div>
            <h3>Indicators (first 10)</h3>
            {loading && <span>...</span>}
            {error && <span>{`ERROR: ${error.message}`}</span>}
            {data && (
                <pre>
                    {data.indicators.indicators
                        .map(ind => ind.displayName)
                        .join('\n')}
                </pre>
            )}
        </div>
    )
}
```

Commit message:

docs: update docs to mention new options and return values

docs/hooks/useDataQuery.md, after:

# useDataQuery Hook

Declaratively define data dependencies and respond to `loading` / `error` / `data` state changes.

## Basic Usage:

```jsx
import { useDataQuery } from '@dhis2/app-runtime'

// Within a functional component body
const { loading, error, data, refetch } = useDataQuery(query, options)
```

## Input

|      Name      |          Type          |   Required   | Description                                                                                                                |
| :------------: | :--------------------: | :----------: | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|   **query**    | [_Query_](types/Query) | **required** | The Query definition describing the requested data                                                                         |
| **options** | _Object_ | | An optional set of query options |
| **options.variables**  |        _Object_        |              | Variables to be passed to the dynamic portions of the query                                                                |
| **options.onComplete** |       _Function_       |              | Callback function to be called on successfull completion of the query. Called with the response data as the only argument. |
|  **options.onError**   |       _Function_       |              | Callback function to be called on failure of the query. Called with the error instance as the only argument.               |
| **options.lazy** | _boolean_ | | If true, wait until `refetch` is called before fetching data.<br/>_**Default**: `false`_ |

## Output

|    Name     |                 Type                 | Description                                                                                                                                                                            |
| :---------: | :----------------------------------: | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **called** |              _boolean_               | **true** if the data request has been initiated with either `lazy: false` or `refetch()` at least once                                                                                                        |
| **loading** |              _boolean_               | **true** if the data is not yet available and no error has yet been encountered                                                                                                        |
|  **error**  |    _Error_<br/>or<br/>_undefined_    | **undefined** if no error has occurred, otherwise the Error which was thrown                                                                                                           |
|  **data**   | _QueryResult_<br/>or<br/>_undefined_ | **undefined** if the data is loading or an error has occurred, otherwise a map from the name of each **QueryDefinition** defined in the **Query** to the resulting data for that query |
| **refetch** |              _Function_              | This function can be called to refetch the data. Any in-flight HTTP requests will automatically be aborted.                                                                            |
| **engine**  | [_Data Engine_](advanced/DataEngine) | A reference to the DataEngine instance                                                                                                                                                 |

## Example

```jsx
import React from 'react'
import { useDataQuery } from '@dhis2/app-runtime'

const query = {
    indicators: {
        resource: 'indicators.json',
        params: {
            order: 'shortName:desc',
            pageSize: 10,
        },
    },
}
export const IndicatorList = () => {
    const { loading, error, data } = useDataQuery(query)
    return (
        <div>
            <h3>Indicators (first 10)</h3>
            {loading && <span>...</span>}
            {error && <span>{`ERROR: ${error.message}`}</span>}
            {data && (
                <pre>
                    {data.indicators.indicators
                        .map(ind => ind.displayName)
                        .join('\n')}
                </pre>
            )}
        </div>
    )
}
```
